hello what's up bro
foreign
yeah dude I'm here sorry
bro I had family over I couldn't do
all right let's get back at it though
all right what we're doing is we're
modeling electrical circuits
uh here
all right so we're trying to build a
voltage-controlled oscillator in
simulation
and hold on let me turn on my camera
and then after that we're going to try
to use this and use one of these and
we're going to try to put it all
together on the board
right now
we would oh hold on hold on bro
give me a second
right right here like this
dude I can't believe you stayed for so
long bro that's that's tight
just a hobby
I like music so I want to make a
synthesizer
you know
um
but uh
I don't really know what I'm doing to be
honest I try to simulate this thing and
it goes to
it just like doesn't work
like it doesn't simulate
so I gotta figure it out
but first I gotta take a piss I'll be
back in a minute
I'm using a
this is a Wolfram system modeler
uh I gotta Trot for it
okay
and basically we're just trying to
follow this guy's series of videos
DIY vco
what about you what are you up to bro a
lot keep doing it bruh
what you got going on man
I always find the people that watch
streams and the people that stream are
disjoint
use oh dude I was actually yeah I uh
yeah I wanna
I was hoping because I was trying to
build this thing oh on cast too let's
try to build this thing which does uh
differential algebraic equation
simulation
and uh
I wrote that I wrote the algorithm to do
the index reduction of daes
but it seemed really
like if you want to properly simulate
daes like the kind that show up in
Electronics or like the pendulum it
seems really
hard like uh and these solve the IE it
seems like the methods that are needed
are super complicated because you can't
you can't just use panto leads but then
you also need to add back in the
constraints
like here so you need a dummy derivative
method or some manifold projection thing
and so I did oh
did uh
I did Panther leads algorithm
shunt some serious ABS here dude I have
no abs
I wish
thanks for
um
yes I try I implemented this and it
works but like the whole rest of it is
so much and I'm gonna do it on Rust
right and I wanted to take spice files
from the kai CAD
spice library and I wanted to take all
these and simulate them and put it
together
but then I was like
uh if I just want to make a
if I just want to like listen to some
music then it's like too much
like I probably could get away with
a lot of these
not being high index diss but
I don't know
I could also use a Dae solver
I'm not really sure
uh but what we're doing now is we're uh
we're just trying to figure this thing
out
actually does Kai cat have a GUI do you
know
can I make
uh drop out
you know
oh you can you can do layouting in this
thing schematic capture
dude let's try this thing you got me on
a roll bruh I'm down
let's see what's up
can I do Brew install Kai CAD
uh not about SCS but I dropped a
h
you can do everything with Kai CAD oh
okay
all right oh dude why is this download
so big how big is this download
all right this is a Kai CAD stream now
let's see but you write it all in spice
right so hold on
let's see
[Music]
let's just see
no yeah I know it's open source bro I
would not be using it for what well
that's not exactly true because this is
not open source but
I make an exception for Mathematica
because it's a beautiful language but
besides like
besides that I don't use proprietary
well I guess I'm on Mac
I try to be as open as possible though
all right let's see
can you programmatically I guess let's
all right let's figure this out
we're almost done here
do you have a GitHub bro let me follow
you on GitHub link that in the chat
oh also join the Discord I don't have
any commands but I I have a Discord now
no members
a lot of projects I want to do
it's bevy
pet PV
for you
I got you bro
nice
uh
yeah I really gotta stopped boxing
everyone
all right I'll add you after
all right once this thing is done I have
fast internet too this should not be
taking so long
I bet kai-cad's massive I bet this is
like two or three gigs
but if it's a GUI I I'm kind of
let's see hold on
nice
I should be able to just open this one
up and do this
oh damn
and you can simulate the circuit in cow
cat I bet right
oh it's made in CERN I didn't know
what's my Discord uh what is my Discord
it's a very good question
like my Channel or me I guess I'll give
the channel because I'm the only one in
the channel so you can figure out who I
am
I think it's just I think it's just this
wait hold on we'll find out in a second
I think I have this Linked In the
I hope this doesn't invalidate my old
link
oh I can't chat from here hold on
Inception
but should I go to twitchcon
for some reason I'm lagging bro oh do I
really have four viewers I'm a baller
all right
um oh dude what's up man
it's guardbreak
wait is this you I don't think that's
you but if it is what's up
all right so kai-cad should be installed
now
oh no it's still installing
oh you can do layouting and stuff
holy this thing is no joke man
this is a real tool
this is kind of what I want to look at
though
it seems more simple than the layouting
but I guess if you want to get it uh
printed
you need to do this stuff too
keycad
bruh I'm not saying keycad I'm saying
kai-cad
you can do from schematics to PCB
what is Gerber PCB Gerber
I mean that's pretty ambitious how long
has this thing been around I'm gonna
look into it
oh it's a file format bro you're on
some you're on some dude I didn't
even know about this file format
it's got a mime type yo
ASCII
of sick man
dude this is super super cool
if only we could get it installed
I think it's in water in a second I'll
be
all right well this one's gonna get some
water
start with default settings check for
updates yes
what
kai-cat has been around for the first
time using the new symbol Library tool
for accessing libraries in order for
to access symbol libraries you must
configure Global symbol Library table
please select from one of the options
below recommended you know it
okay let's oh dude this thing
looks retro I actually love the the font
here man
it's like it's so retro dude all right
hold on how do I get her oh it's one of
these I hate these Zoom I hate this Zoom
format at least you can move and it like
adjusts but I finally so cumbersome
okay now
I just want like GPT to be like ad
resistor like can I just load in a spice
file
it's the name of the format used by the
PCB maker it's like PCB yeah so have you
gotten ships taped out like or boards
taped out I don't know if taped out is
the right thing to say but have you
gotten them printed if so that is
sweet
all right uh
for vco
okay
this
is
forgot to mention
I want
actually hold on
let's see if it gets us right I mean I
just wanna
basic thing to
because I used uh
was it Zeiss
I forgot what it was called
um
and G spice I think
okay hold on so let's go to
uh
foreign
file import
non-kai CAD schematic
oh
all right well let's just try to uh
okay how do I open
tools preferences
Ed symbol
it's got to be that
oh what
yo that's a lot that's crazy all right
what about just a resistor
do they have just like the generic
resistor are they all like actual Parts
oh here r
all right now we want to Compass
for
device C there must be a faster way to
do this
oh I see okay hold on I gotta get used
to this
is there a ground
interesting
yeah Arduino is sick
and when I have I want to have the
Arduino taken my MIDI controller
and control the vco in my MIDI
yeah I know I bet there's a lot more
shortcuts because like this is getting
absurd
W for wire
how do I add a voltage source
pulse that's what I want
oh I see how this thing works
all right so now
if I simulate it do I get a
let's see what the getting started it
says oh I like their documentation look
drawing a schematic and laying out a
circuit board the schematic is a
symbolic representation of the circuit
schematic symbols are pictorial
representation electronic components
I I like how they yeah and then you lay
it out
I want to just take a look at this PC
foreign
oh wow okay
so I can change this ridiculous
oh really
this is a pretty good project
trackpad defaults
oh nice okay that's much that's much
better
I'm not gonna be building anything big
enough for the uh
I love that it's like paper sizes like
this is
this software is a serious competitor of
paid software is used by a lot of
Engineers so you can find everything or
import things or use plugins or code
your own plugins if you want to
cool
because you know what I love I love that
blender do I have blender
I love that blender has a full python
how do I do it again
what dude python sucks
I hate python
regardless it's the best
oh their console is so bad
all right I'm done with that
adding symbols
ooh LED
can I move them around
[Music]
this time
I love that
okay whatever I'm not getting hung up on
yeah this is probably what I should
build first
single cell battery
oh I can rotate it nice
nice
can I just call R
oh that's so sick
um
oh dude I'm getting fast
W boom boom
boom boom
did that work
what
there we go
it's kind of Jank to be TBH
yeah exactly now dude you're so right
nobody loves python like for white
spacing like all this Jank and pip like
bro I spent so much time just messing
with Pip
next I had power and grounds to the
schematic
if you have a battery why do you need
that
the things I don't really understand
Electronics but
well not strictly necessary in such a
simple schematic these make it easier to
understand large schematics
however there's a shortcut added power
symbol using the P oh that's useful
do they actually do anything or is it
just
for looks
let's try it
okay
cool
w w this bit
W this bit
okay
so now we have that
each symbol needs a unique reference
designator assigned to it this process
knows annotation
symbols are
you man
no I know a little bit I'm not like I'm
not like dumb but
uh I feel like okay I'm just trying to
learn from wait I have two chromes open
that's not right
oh dude we're growing
what the is up Kyle
I don't know what your name is
set up
no
okay
hold on
right okay
well it's not necessary for this guide
symbols can be manually annotated that's
fine nice fill in the values for each
component select the LED right click and
select properties sweet hold on
right click
huh
oh it's because I'm in wire mode oh
there we go I see if I press Escape I
get out of wire mode
and then I go to properties
ah okay here we go
oh nice
where you go to university
where you at
wait hold on I want to guess let me like
look at your
take a close blunt uh
let's see I want to see if I can guess
you're giving me
like
hmm
I don't know you're like
he's European Eastern European or
something I will a lot
I don't know
it's wild yes
fill in the values for each component
it's like the LED select properties
is the value field to red
oh
real positive
this project will use a three volt
lithium coin cell battery so change the
value field bt1 to say three volts
uh
I don't know why e goes to this
oh
I feel like value is kind of stupid
hey is this the wrong way
I feel like this is the wrong way
there we go
wait we did that do what I want
oh I think that's actually how that
works okay cool it doesn't hold them
assign a footprint to each component
just to find how each component will
attach to the PCB
some symbols come with Footprints
pre-assigned but for many components
there are multiple possible Footprints
so the user needs to select the
appropriate one
what is a
how each component will attach to the
PCB
there's several ways to assign
Footprints but one convenient way is to
use the footprint assignment tool by
clicking the
little link
to that one
oh I see okay
oh dude there's a Reverb model
that's that's sweet
there's so many things in here
wow
pretty cool
all right uh the left pane of this
window lists the available footprint
libraries the middle play pane shows the
symbols in the schematic all the symbols
will get Footprints assigned to them the
right pane shows the footprints that can
be chosen
yeah for sure let's hop this in
bro if this guy's annoying dude I'm
Banning you
oh it's digikey
a couple of LEDs
hope you can customize
these videos
if we zoom in we can see the individual
Wiregrass and notice that no solder was
used to make these connections as
electrons became more popular in the 60s
and 70s a wire wrapping technique was
about
components these dimensions are made
with series of conductor tracks or
traces usually cut and this power is
laminated onto work in between sheets of
not conducted material like fiberglass
if you renting a cross section of PCB
and examine it under a microscope you
would see the number of layers the
substrate is the original material that
holds everything together most pcbs that
come across will use fiberglass and
purely toxic resin the epoxy is normally
flame resistant and lightning makes me
flame recorded to rain forests
which means that only one side of the
board
this project they usually cost more and
are reserved for more complex PCB
layouts for our plate approvals a drill
or is a chunk of confidence substrate a
thin layer of copper is then added to
the inside of the hole using a process
called electroplating note that this
also deposits on all exposed surfaces oh
yeah because I was wondering if you have
both sides how does that even work
different layers of cover and as long as
they played approval power is
and do the choices and have specified in
the design we can stop here and you have
a perfectly usable two layers
I could easily saw the components to
this and it would work well for a
project or a prototype or it can be nice
to add a layer of protection and help
prevent short circuits when you say
accidentally move a screwdriver across
the board
does this only consist of study light
color and his only ground surfaces where
we don't want to start components too it
also helps including other places or
jumping the key traces
dude this is a good video
is
where we want exposed powder such as the
top and bottom of our group will shown
here comes with an oxidized which makes
sorrow into a typical so those many
factors will add a surface finish we'll
have PowerPoint how to use an electrical
immersion this gives any exposed traces
or has a gold color it makes the color
easier and helps protect finally make
more main factors will add a layer of
ink in any pattern we want to help us
identify components name the board or
add silly upper this is going to say
silt screenplay it's only white but
sometimes the board Also let's pick
another color if we go back to a
Raspberry Pi we can see the bear
substrate which is round or Panic it's
an exposed cutter which has been given a
gold color finish green sweater Mass on
both of the board and plate silk screen
has six layers of color which is a lot
more complicated in the world to be
making so this is made we have a little
pie here software
program for sure whether this specific
type program operates
together yeah that makes sense
designed to create symbol schematic
capture create Footprints generate
netlist wow there's a lot to this
board layout production generate bomb
it's a bomb
that must be the final step
I've heard that thing before software
capture program which is known as
we can search the exact parts we need
website
um
so this file is an ee schema files
from there we can look at each
partitions should be oh bill of
materials thanks bro that's helpful
manufacturer which we can usually find
on the website we then import our net
list which places our parts in the
program we move the parts around as we
see fit and rock hopper connections
known as traces between the necessary
pins after that we generate a set of
files known as grippers that represent
the various layers of the board you wish
to make
there's a lot of constraints though I
remember reading about this you have to
like
there's all sorts of things about like
how long you need it to take to get to
RAM and like that
whoa
thank you
uh I think policies
dude making chips is such a crazy field
s
files before you send them to the
manufacturer finally we create a bill of
materials for bomb and what are the
electronic components from digital once
all the parts arrive we can solder them
to the board to build the batch there
are a number of keys programs out there
but in this series we'll be looking at
keypad keycap is free and open source
which is but it's also powerful enough
to do the complicated work for example
the guts of this omx DIY laptop were
designed entirely in keycad if you're
following along with these words
download button
about what CBS what because it's free
and open source
the project in this project and also
this new folders button
oh cool
oh do I have to do this first
all right we'll read the docs
I want to look at this thing
dude I love the colors
why not get me out of here
oh sick
oh really
oh they have a little python
wait can I
dude I didn't even know this
it passes from a schematic to a finished
PC view there's a lot of headaches and
efforts yeah I bet
okay where is ADD component
oh I like this hidden pins thing that
was one thing that bothered me about
this thing is that there's some hidden
pins within this op amp
I don't know where the create component
thing is I feel like it's not here
so whatever I feel like it'll stay
there's not having any more equipment
okay let's get the name seven by five
and leave a reference design here as you
originally five times
electrical engineers yeah
lower voltages
for short is a combination of letters
and numbers used to identify electrical
components on the board if you scroll
down with a key page for reference
Center here the final is letters oh this
is what like R1 R2 is yeah
what was it called
what
I want to look at these
because I saw Q where's Q
is for transistor
navigate to your project directory which
should be named something like 555 batch
when creating opponents you need to a
project like this I like to give the
library the same name as the project so
we'll call this one 5x500. save it
I wish I could just do this for the
whole program because there's some all
these guise bro they take so much
understanding and it's like I know what
I want to do I wish there was a search
here
I don't think there is a
oh that's useful that's very useful
worst component
all right whatever I don't care nope
even though we saved our component
Library we need to set that library that
will allow us to make edit to a part and
save it back into the library it's a
little confusing but it's a necessary
step collaborate library that will allow
us to make eggs to a part and save it
back into the library it's a little
confusing but it's a necessary step
all right so we know what that does
what was this one
this is a browse this is a create
a new symbol oh let's go okay hold on
oh new symbol I want to create this I
want to create my own symbol library
right
assembles to new library
project
my library
I'm just I'm just making a mess
everything do I still get all the other
things okay I still get this but then I
should see my library rank nice cool
okay
dude I love that you're using emojis man
I mean I want the custom emojis
oh wait I didn't want to do that
you can delete just the label
it's kind of weird
button and click someone on the page to
create a tip this is going to be hitting
at the bottom of the first page with the
names and numbers in the description but
that's it does and pin numbers are used
to designate replicated on the physical
part notice that on our package the
number starts with one to left of a
notch and counts up go down four
well it's cool they linked to this thing
that's so useful
dude I can see how people are like power
users with this thing
so if I
I wonder if you like in here if you like
provide a crazy voltage outside of its
like operating range I wonder if it like
the simulator blows up but it's like
look this thing is going to catch on
fire
I bet it doesn't but that'd be really
cool
as well
and it can be useful to keep that bar on
the pending when we can see that so
[Music]
that's cool
so I want to make a help
create component
okay cat7
I don't know if there is simulation
there is simulations dude up here
there's
simulate circuit and Spice
maybe it's like
not that good
or maybe I just haven't set any of the
values of these parameters
I mean what even is the resistance to
this thing
I don't like that this value
like one thing that's super cool here
is this thing has not only this but it
has the units so you can't connect units
that are messed up
okay
um
all right let's just stay focused let's
go back to the video
but situations
fortunately or unfortunately foreign
okay right
we're figuring it out we know what's up
you guys go back to our schematic editor
who's this thing
let's see what he does
not just navigation
yeah
I obviously don't know I literally just
downloaded
I have this
we don't we don't even really want to do
that right I just want to
I just want to read the docs I feel like
that's the easiest thing to do it's kind
of boring but it's
where was it
what exactly is a footprint
defines how each component will attach
to the PCB
it's like physically just attaches to it
so these are like
that's pretty amazing how detailed this
is
sometimes those predefined filters are
missing or too restrictive so it can be
useful to turn this filter off in terms
of the middle button filters by pin
count so that only eight pet Footprints
are shown for eight pin symbols
almost always useful yeah that makes
sense
so it
well let me keep reading
the right button L filters my selected
Library okay
using the final assign the footprints
shown in the center column
okay so we want the battery holder wait
Oops I messed that up
wait this is a different view than I had
before
oh it's this one
okay
so for this I want to search for battery
older Keystone
okay
LED
well there's so many of these
I wish it's a red X search
D5 zero point
five millimeters
you know if you wanna hold on
let me just blocked out okay hold on
why is this okay there we go if you want
to create your own Library symbols you
have to find the data sheet of the
physical component you want to make and
look for the pins and make each one
match the real thing
you have to take a real reference though
and not invent a schematic that you
can't use anymore yeah that makes sense
right now I just want to follow the the
intro thing before I do anything else
five millimeter just this one
these Footprints thing I never ever
considered but so makes sense
it's a little tedious I feel like
but for the purpose of actual PCB making
it makes sense that you have to go
through all this
are
seal there's so many of these
hold on let's just do this for right now
all right I can't imagine that
all right
that's what I want okay so we have our
Footprints now that's good
the last remaining thing to do in the
schematic is to check for electrical
errors
Kai cad's electrical rules Checker
cannot make sure that the design and the
schematic will work but it can check for
some common connection issues such as
unconnected pins
two power outputs shorted together a
power input that isn't powered by
anything it also checks for some other
mistakes like symbols that aren't
annotated in typos and net labels
to run an electrical rules check click
the ERC button
bro we about to irk the out of this
thing you guys ready for the arc oh
hold on
oh input PowerPoint not driven but
oh
I like that they show me little arrows
oh they got the same mirror okay
yeah that makes sense you want to clean
the standard Library have a lot of parts
that you can buy easily
uh but for some of them it's
discontinued unavailable you have to
make your own from a part look at that
electronic shop
in this case kai-cad reports input Power
Pin not driven by any output power pins
for both VCC and ground Nets this is a
common Erica power symbols are set up to
require a power output pin such as the
output of a voltage regulator on the
same net
what does net mean in that case
otherwise Tech head thinks the net is
undriven to human it's obvious that VCC
and ground are driven by the battery
yeah I don't really get why we want
these power pins in the first place it
seems like
confusing
okay
there's a special power flag symbol in
the power symbol library that is used to
solve this problem by telling cat that
the Nets are actually driven
I forgot to change this thing to
red
okay
hmm that's not where that goes
oops
oh that's interesting okay
oh wait hold on
the optional
oh that's sweet so then if you want to
buy it you just have the bill of
materials that's so cool
and you can like know how much it costs
and stuff
let's see what the hell is there
bomb series
I like that it's all just stitched
together with python it's just like
so I dude and it comes with its own
python why do they do this why do they
do this to me they have to ship python
vco.csv
uh
[Music]
work air
wait hold on let's uh
let's run another Earth check
[Music]
oh
is there a hotkey for this
[Music]
what what the hell does that do
air reading simulation model from symbol
[Music]
oh interesting
the Morgan convert oh that's so cool
for logic stuff
all right so let's
[Music]
uh
with the schematic completed go back to
the project winner and open the PCB
editor
[Music]
wow
let's see what's in here
customer service of where to go from
here okay yeah let's do this getting
started
[Music]
automatically go away
please editor button or opening the
board file
navigation the PCB is the same in the
schematic editor
nice
it's responsive that's
all right let's save this
nah
she wants some Joy type
foreign
[Music]
thank you
oh wow
to Define how the PCB will be
manufactured the most important settings
are the stack up I.E what copper and
dielectric layers of the PCB will have
and their thickness and the design rules
sizes and spacing for tracks and views
what's this
oh
[Music]
a via is an electrical connection
between two or more metal layers and are
commonly used in printed circuit boards
essentially a via is a small drilled
hole that goes through two or more
adjacent layers the hole is plated with
metal yeah okay
all right let's go to board setup
where is it
I wish we could just search I don't know
where it is
whoa
holy that's the actual battery size
that's
gross
[Music]
that's the electrical that's the
electric knowledge part the thickness
need to be calculated following your
voltage needed yeah
[Music]
yeah dude there's this prolific guy that
uses Wolfram too
and he makes his own he makes his own
modular synthesizers and I kind of want
to do it too
or make that guitar pedals
okay so what am I looking for I keep
getting distracted
boards file board setup
I'm blind
[Music]
I wonder what all this stuff means F
probably stands for
what
I'd use it upon there I'll use wait I
won't I want more than nine I want
another layer
we'll see
are you talking about J dot w I don't
think so I'm talking about this guy
I'm talking about um
this guy
or wait let me look at GitHub
dude sometimes this chat works and I
can't paste links in that
it's like so lame
[Music]
I don't know why I can't
um
copy and paste into that
all right so let's look at these
thicknesses
[Music]
foreign
yeah
next go to the design rules
settings on this page specify the
overriding design rules for everything
in the board design for the purpose of
this guide the defaults are fine however
for a real project these should be set
according to the capabilities of the P
of the PCB Fab house so that the PCB
design is manufacturable wow there's so
much that goes into this it's actually
absurd
Cisco constraints
minimum clearance
minimum track width
[Music]
I like these little icons
I see you bro
[Music]
hey it's a lisp
it's hilarious
the rules definition is a lisp
[Music]
foreign
what's up
I'm shooting by the way uh I uh I have
been my aunt uh I have my aunt call me
no no not call me she came over and then
there was this guy on stream that was
like chatting with me a lot and I
figured
I'm gonna
you know got to capitalize on the
viewership you know I was up to four
viewers at one time
yeah
really
like
that
why
you don't want to hang out with me you
wanna play that game
look let's play that game I have Steam
on here now
let's play for just a bit
because I have one minute
while we play hold on why does this
thing application is a lot of perform
when the app no dude you can't
this thing keeps going to have
background tasks I'm not letting you
have background tasks
where is it
okay let's close that thing
there we go it's coming up
all right give me a minute because I
have to
I've got to go to the Steam app and log
in
so we're we can only do it one way right
because you don't have a
yeah is that true
is that what happened last time yeah we
played we play the game I was
like you were the person with the manual
yeah okay
all right let me get let me download the
game right now
let's go get my computer I got sweaty
balls
they're not that sweaty
don't you miss hanging out with me a lot
yeah
a lot
more weeks so you can come to me
yes true okay hold on let me
I always have to open up activity
monitor because
steam helper is taking that much space
why
why is steam helper taking so much space
bro I hate bad software
just make simple software that's not
going to fry my computer how about that
really why
I think my boss is kind of mean to the
kids
really why is that
[Music]
there's a heart of the blood and she's
seven right and she's crying and she
wants to go home and she wants
you know she wants to be comforted
he was like kind of like she's too old
to be acting like this
uh and I offered her an ice pack because
I wanted her to just stop crying I
wanted her to like feel better because
because she's been crying for like 30
minutes by this point
and
um he was like it's kind of a pet peeve
of mine to give ice packs when people
don't them
okay
let's go ahead okay so she just like
cried some more
why didn't he want to just give the ice
pack I don't really get that
yeah I don't know either
[Music]
I think I think his expectations are
just not like like we have to meet the
kids where they are
also his boss was there today and Everly
was making was calling me Rogers
as they do
and he pulled me aside and he was like
you can't look
can't look but can't let them disrespect
you well I was like well you should see
what happens when they really disrespect
me
he's like we'll talk to the parents and
I was like Paris don't do anything
you know like it's just like
to be harsh to Everly like makes my job
makes my day harder you know what I mean
yeah like I've talked about this
countless times it like just makes me
have a worse day to like
nitpick all the little things like he
was like I get that you just want to
have fun with that but like they have
they have to respect you I was like well
like
I don't know just um
like you don't even know these kids
oh you know what it is it's because
steam doesn't have native Native builds
there no I am listening
okay I have it installed though
you know like her parents don't care
so
you know
do you know where the bomb is
I mean the manual
okay
I like Crayola's boxes
and she was confirmed with the kids
are you listening yeah
all right I gotta mute this game this
game is gonna this music's gonna drive
me crazy
FaceTime me
uh you wanna go on Discord
okay
dude this guy commented like so many
times I can't believe he stayed in the
chat for like 50 minutes before I like
got back from my aunt
and then he was like are you here at
least and I was like I am now but you've
waited like 15 50 minutes
he said I have abs when I have
absolutely no abs
hello
okay
drawing a board outline now the three
components have been placed but the
board itself has not yet has not been
defined the board is defined by drawing
a board outline on the edge dot Cuts
layer
I'm trying to find the manual
uh bombmanual.com
okay you ready
no
I I need you to give me manual version
one verification code
two four one
oh I have to go through this uh
little
okay all right I just had to go through
the rules again
all right
um oh we have to go through the whole
thing again
yeah I didn't remember my place
all right the first bomb are you ready
wait what
bruh okay fine it's it it somehow it
knows that I
beat this but
all right start
okay the lights on uh I see three wires
[Music]
there's a blue one a red one and a black
one
[Music]
last wire
okay there's this thing with four
symbols on it an upside down question
mark a weird curly h a star and this
kind of like curly q thing
curlicue star H question mark
cool there's a yellow hold button
[Music]
um
is there
um is it red not yellow
[Music]
um
hold the button
okay
blue
I'll release when the countdown timer
has
is plus four in any position
oh let's go good stuff
am I looking big
yeah you do look on a bit
are you blushing
yeah
I feel like you do look big
oh
hey wait hold on oh no no section two
okay yeah no never mind
it doesn't remember our thing
Something Old Something New
what
yep
thank you you are too
okay I got the four symbols I got the
Simon says I got a yellow hole
symbols all right question upside down
question mark like vertically or
reflected K uh the paragraph symbol and
like a weird six
okay
uh Simon Says
hold it's yellow
yeah
it's yellow
it has five in any position okay Simon
Says
I forgot but this one's messed up right
all right it's flashing yellow which is
on the right side
okay
[Music]
the yellow one on the right side
press green
oh wait wait wait wait wait
does it does the serial number contain a
vowel or no
um
the serial number does not contain a
vowel
okay
now it's yellow red
uh
red yellow no red blue
red blue
[Music]
that's going yellow red blue
red blue yellow
nice we did it
easy we're so good at this game
diffused
that was our best time yet
double your money
okay I got two symbols and a wire
oh and I actually got a bunch of stuff
okay what
I got well and then on the other side I
got an abort button a
okay I got two wires but okay anyways
this one has six wires
there's a white a yellow wire there's no
yellow
yeah
cut the third wire
okay uh symbols I got like a lollipop
like uh backwards c a curly q and a star
okay backwards C nope
okay now this one
this one the other symbols I got like a
half written three a copyright symbol
some boobs and a q
uh
[Music]
um
Sam again I got like a half written
three a copyright symbol some boobs and
a curly q
okay
see boobs curly q three
nice okay now I gotta I got more wires
there's uh five of them
um is the last wire black yeah
okay
now I got a red press button
[Music]
how many batteries are on
the bottom how many uh there's four six
seven
okay or with the label
RK
no it's not lit
White
release when it has a one in any
position okay I got a yellow abort
this is abort it's yellow
um
it's blue
nice good stuff
defused best time yet
foreign
bombs One Step Up
show me how big you are
yeah oh it's going uh I got symbols
um I got like a railroad track like a
backwards e and Omega and a six
uh six
railroad tracks nope
okay
I got wires three of them
[Music]
no
they're more than one blue wire no
okay
um
okay I got I got like uh the four
numbers and then there's a number it's
like a little computer
uh okay hold on
hold on
um
what what numbers on the display it's a
one
okay
a two
oh I hated this one
it's a two again
nope
all right so one
okay
four
press the second position
okay
it's a two
across the second position no
yeah it's about it but it's all right
let's retry
what what is it because I remember that
there was something about we have to
like remember what the numbers were
yeah
okay hold on
I got symbols I got paragraph I got
flipped
no
no I got the symbols okay I got
paragraph I got the weird K that's
flipped around I got the like
Triangle Man and I got the like weird
lowercase b
I went through the
car
okay say them again okay there's a
paragraph symbol the weird K there's
like a half written H with like a
triangle headed alien and then a
lowercase b
yeah like it's like a b but it has a
little like
what's the first one paragraph
cool
okay I got wires there's six
uh is there no yellow wires no there's
no yellow
okay I got the word no and six words on
a like this display that says no and
then six words
uh
no and then six words
press the one
uh press the button in the lower right
hand corner nope
okay
um the word is now
[Music]
blank it's blank now I think that's a
bug
no word showed up
uh oh okay
um
so
so it's blank yeah
it's like completely blank or it says
blank no it's completely blank
there's six words
left it's your you are
[Music]
wait hold on hold on some of those
aren't in there and some of those are go
back again
lift it listen okay done you the letter
U you are the letters you are aha what
question mark sure wait wait hold on
hold on for some reason when I clicked
one all the words disappeared and then
it went to the next round so there's
like three rounds
so now it says lead and there's new
words
l-e-a-d
okay I left the word on the bottom
the bottom right says you are your like
your but with apostrophe r e
u the letter U with the letter no no
no Okay Go Okay okay it was that one
yes
uh-huh
you're as in
wait wait wait wait sorry sorry oh my
God the music is playing it the word was
uh uh u-h-u-h but there's also
wait wait start over
okay we got it okay all right we don't
have time there's six seconds but I got
the like thing with two green circles
and a rotating red triangle boom
now I feel like I feel like we're
getting used to the word the word
display though
[Music]
yeah
maybe we should just always spell it out
I don't know
okay I got uh wires
uh there's five
[Music]
yeah
is this one what no
[Music]
no
there's one black wire
cut the first wire okay I got a white
button that says detonate
[Music]
yeah
Crescent immediately release okay cool I
got the words
it says yes
the second on the left it says what
what with a question mark or no no
spell them
u-h H yeah that got that one okay the
next one is um
says s-a-y-s
bottom right
it's
r-i-g-h-t right
yeah okay we got it
um
display
[Music]
it says middle
yeah we got it okay now I got a Simon
Says
green
um
is there uh does the serial number have
a vowel or not
no
okay green yeah
press green
okay
now it's yellow
now it's now it's green again
all right it's blue
nice we finished sick
that was good
the first rushing through these
pick up the pace
hmm
I got Simon Says
it's flashing blue
there is a vowel
it was blue then green
[Music]
okay we finished it
um
um I got three wires
um is there a red wire yeah
the last wire white yeah
okay I got the thing with two green
circles on a grid with a with a with a
red triangle
um
it's like we have to navigate to yeah
okay where are the circles okay remember
the coordinates goes
column then row so it's one one and then
four one
oh sorry row then column sorry that's
confusing row then column
yeah
yeah I got it
um
okay uh where's the so where's the white
light the white light is at uh six three
[Music]
down and over
and down it's the row number so it's the
bottom row
column three
row is a going across columns go up and
down
go where's the triangle the triangle is
at four three
to the left to the green
yeah
oh wait I'm the white guy sorry I'm the
white guy I thought it was the red guy
all right so okay I went over to
uh you're at the end I'm at six one
okay
yep
round two yeah
ah
I tried to rush it because I didn't have
time uh
we got this this is easy
the biggest one again
uh no Maze We got Simon flashing blue
serial number vowel or no
no
green
[Music]
red
hello
[Music]
got it numbers it says three
three
um press the button in the third
position
what number was that three
now it's showing one
press the button labeled four
what position is that that was two
now it's showing four
button labeled four
that was the fourth position
now it's showing four again
that's a two
okay
now it's showing four again
[Music]
stage
what's up
whatever whatever
label you press on the third stage set
two that was a four I think
nice okay I got six wires
[Music]
yeah
is there more than one white wire yeah
nice easy
I gotta turn down the volume on this
thing hold on
all right stressful yeah but in a kind
of good way
all right section three a hidden message
information can be obscured in ways that
are time consuming to decode in the
world of bomb defusing that's a bad
thing
oh is that right I forgot about that
I got a white hold button
is there a lit indicator with the label
carved
and now
okay what does it say hold
yellow
release what it has a five
okay got it
um now I got the radio with the the
megahertz on it
[Applause]
the alarm I forgot about that
oh I hated this one
um the signal will loop with long gaps
between repetition
um one word is identified long three
short
too short one short long three short too
short one short
you know is that a letter
oh I don't know
it should repeat itself
hold on oh God this is so disoriented
all right long
two three short
two short one short
too short one short two oh my God this
one is impossible for me to figure out
that's the pause okay next
I gotta wait for it to come around again
okay there's a long gap between letters
there's a very long gap before the word
yeah
okay long three short
too short
one short
too short one long too short
not too fast one long two three short
Too Short what's the next one one short
too short one long two short one short
one long too short
foreign
long three short
too short
one short
two short one long
too short
one short
one long too short
no
one long
wait hold on I gotta wait for a second
I don't have time to do that
yeah it's hard
all right
long pause three short pause
two short pause one short pause
two short pause one long
five
nope
oh I got it this music is
that part of the game
yeah that's part of that music part of
the game
one long three short
wait
too short
no like a long Flash oh it blew up
I hate that one that one was always my
least favorite
sure
it went
it went long
three short
too short
one short
and that's all I remember
oh it's going uh okay I got
no I don't have the morse code
which do you have the numbers no no I
have the words the you you you're you
are is up
right r-i-g-s-t
y-e-s no
yeah
oh shoot I thought I I prematurely hit
it okay
yeah sorry all right it says s-y-s-a-y-s
you are
[Music]
okay I got it okay uh now it says
c s e e
ready
y-e-s next word okay got it okay
blank it's nothing there's nothing on it
no and no
b-l-a-n-k next word u-h h next word
w-a-i-t next word f i got it okay now I
got letters that are in like a cipher
's in a cipher
there's five letters
with the submit button and arrows above
and below the letters
it's a green display
[Music]
r c h q t z hold on
r
c h q t z
I don't know
if I make marks
no
all right I'm gonna blow it up
oh
is that good hold on
hold on
where are you going push-ups
don't overdo it
you overdo it and then you Tire yourself
out
huh
you overdo it and then you tie yourself
out and then you don't do it for a while
okay
I got the I got the morse code
all right I'm gonna restart it
I don't know why it's missing
boo
are you ready
oh okay let me I'm gonna go back to
kai-cad
actually I'm gonna get some water
why are you walking like that
okay
all right
no that's just like the common rappers
pour out some candy
yeah you know my dad got from Costco
guess
a tummy Tucker
Hennessy
apparently apparently the guy that's
coming to stay with us his old friend
from New Jersey loves cognac
I think it's I don't I don't know I
honestly have no idea are you ready now
all right
probably because no one's used to it
[Music]
love
I was looking at Johnny ham check I mean
he's been doing this for two years and
his first videos they only have like a
thousand views
it's really encouraging
do you guys have Ranch
oh no do you guys have blue cheese
hold on I gotta go to that
are you ready
okay
a hidden message
I wonder if there's something about this
that we're missing
a hidden message hmm
I got the words
the word say is they are
t-h-e-y space a-r-e
foreign
yeah
is that what you said yeah
middle left says y-e-s
[Music]
okay
next word r i
h t that's word u h h next word m-i-d
f i
X word w h a t next word
p-r-e-s-s next word
r-e-a-d-y next
oh I messed it up
y-e-s
middle left middle left uh uhh
r-e-a-d-y next word
got it
see just the letter c
top right nothing
H H next word
r-i-g-h-t next got it
yes y-e-s
middle left you just the letter
okay I got it there's an abort that's
white it's a button
no
um
hold the
what's up the color blue
okay all right I got the uh I got the I
got the freaking uh Morse code one
okay
um so do try to do it with the pause
okay say pause
long pause Too Short pause
three short pause
two short pause two shirt paws
one short pause two short pause
oh yeah I think it's not right hold on
hold on
I have to wait for it to cycle around
you're not I think you're
thinking yeah I think I am too
all right hold on
okay
oh God this is so hard why is it so hard
hold on
okay okay
short long oh my God it's so fast
[Music]
short long
I think he has short long pause two
short pause
[Music]
I can't be right
is there how in Morse code
is there something with four is there
something that is there something that
goes short long short short
I have short long short
Maybe
uh
all right I got four wires oh wait no no
let's do this let's do this thing we're
spending the whole five minutes on this
stupid
okay
three short pause
two short pause
two short pause one short pause oh my
God I can't read I can't do this
three short
long what about that three short short
long
what's the letter for three shorts s
right
okay s
short long pause
short short
s but short long
what about short long short
long story is it always in groups of
three
so some of them are two
some of them are one oh my God whoever
designed Morse code is an idiot
so we have the S yeah Morse you're an
idiot
all right give me a second
uh okay hold on
okay
s
short long short short is there any with
four
oh there are
oh okay it's short long short short
okay
um
uh what letter is that
oh we got it we're sick all
right um I got four wires two yellow
[Music]
nice
okay I got the numbers uh
it says three
[Music]
yeah
yeah third position two
two
that's a two
four
[Music]
last position
two
position one
easy
I'm glad we got this stupid it seems
like only the first couple letters
matter for this yeah
oh that's the whole point of this thing
is they try to make this stupid Morse
code extremely difficult
no seriously because that was the hint
a hidden message
what are you asking what the word was no
I'm not asking what the word was I'm
saying the name of this
and the and and the description was
information can be obscured in ways that
are time consuming to decode
something's different do these wires
look different to you does this bomb
look exploded to you
okay
let's go to the different looking wires
I know
yeah the fat ones
oh no no mine sorry the vertical ones
yeah I got you
[Music]
yeah there's a yeah there's a what light
above the fourth one
um wait
there's two blue and then four red
um
wires four and five have stars
underneath them
oh my god
um Ronnie oh my God
oh my God Ronnie
okay first wire
blue
nothing
you mean light or symbol has neither
cut the last wire okay
oh
okay
um
next wire blue nothing on it
cut it
okay
red nothing
red with both
um do not cut the wire okay
red with star
cut the wire
nothing happened
oh maybe that's what we have to do okay
I got the horizontal wires now
okay
I don't know I feel like it's supposed
to turn green when we finish it
oh I cut them all and it went green I
don't know what happened
okay uh I got I got five wires
horizontal
[Music]
no
they're exactly one red wire no
there's two black wires
I got Simon says it's flashing green
[Music]
no
do we have any strikes
stripes
strikes
but do we have any strikes we have no
green
okay
yellow
red
thank you
okay we did it
hold on Kevin pie just said something in
Russian in my chat what did you say in
Russian bruh
Johnny ham check
it's the lyrics to a song
let's see what let's see what the song
is
the lyrics to the song are summer and
crossbows Wagner's tinkle will drive up
somewhere where the coin is ringing
their tamknits are dancing
what
why
because
all right hold on let's play some of
this song though
summer and crossbows
okay
you might be doing
well how would I know
I'm gonna put it in the chat so you can
listen to it
it's actually kind of sick
hey guys consider subscribing to me it
takes one second you can always change
your mind many song edits to come
that's kind of cute skill black
oh hey Hannah you gotta listen to this
listen to what it's okay
it's my favorite song now
oh
foreign
[Music]
uh there should be like a little button
that's that has a little chat thing on
it
I know but I think since I'm doing it
through my email it's like
you just text it to me
no it's all right it's not worth it
RJ person bro
all right I'm Gonna Keep it playing
nah it's too small of a song it came out
two weeks ago with 100K views
[Music]
you look sleepy
would you watch Barbie again
no
did you watch Oppenheimer again
probably not
decided for the five nights
are you ignoring me
hey
what
I think you're buffering
oh can we play this Wagner's weird
sorry you're cutting out
please answer I'm not
I like that this guy came in here
literally just to post these song lyrics
yes
no
apparently he does coding streams
performances include
hello
Josh Hutcherson
includes such bangers like before the
Hunger Games movies I don't even know
who that is
a Bridge to Terabithia
come on
you know Josh Hutcherson
whoa
I'm at Burger King with my burger Queen
yeah
I don't know what he says
I'm a Burger King with my burger Queen
can I get a what does he say you
end up
it's the it's the it's the space Jumanji
wait hold on
can I get a large fry
no cheese with some honey mustard on the
side
what Joy does that bring to ignore your
special couple
nah but you needed to hear that I need a
Burger King with my burger Queen can I
get a large fry
I'm not your burger Queen
please
oh yeah I'm ready I thought you weren't
ready for some reason
you ready
I'm at Burger King with my burger Queen
can I get a one giant leap 60 of the
time this bomb explodes every time
huh
one giant leap
interesting we probably have to take a
gamble or something
yeah we got vertical wires
there's
I don't know what information is
relevant but the first one is just red
with nothing
[Music]
uh is the last digit of the serial
number even no
okay I got a white with both
uh it's plain white yeah
cut the wire if the bomb has two or more
batteries
okay
all right I got a white with a light
um do not cut the wire I got a white
with nothing
cut the wire I gotta okay we're good I
got a I gotta the word and it's c c e e
three letters c e e
uh bottom right bottom right is press
got it
red r-e-d
next
uh
w h a a e question mark next one
u-h h u h next word
u-h-u-h got it y o u
red r-e-d
uh second on the right what with a
question mark
y o u next word
h-o-l-d next word
y o u apostrophe r e next word y o u r
next word you got it okay
um I got the symbols I got triangle man
I got Lambda I got backwards C and I got
lollipop
[Music]
oh yeah
huh
what does Triangle Man have the H yeah
does Triangle
cool okay I got the weird wires that are
like horizontal with one two three and a
b c on them
[Music]
within this module there are several
panels with wires on them wait don't
read it out
switch to the pa the next panel by using
the down button and the previous panel
by using the button do not switch to the
next panel until you are sure you have
cut all the necessary wires cut the
wires as directed by the following table
I got one I got one red a
um
is it connected to C no one red a
there's no second red
there's no blue
nothing there's only one wire
okay cool I got two red wires five red b
six red C
to what B
connects to what C
nope
[Music]
oh okay
B five and B
okay
six red C
um okay I got seven black a
black b nine blue a
[Music]
oh hell
it wasn't because of you it was because
of time
with my burger Queen put your arm down
okay we're going okay I got the I got
the navigation one
what
my eyes
but it takes a minute because my
computer doesn't have the
okay what is it now
but I don't know
these one these one two three
all right we're going back to it no I
got the navigation thing I got the thing
with the green circles and red triangle
okay
um
oh this is when it's decides not to load
awesome
well you got running on that computer
bruh sorry I don't think one thing ma'am
all right I'm at three one and the green
circles are at five one and two three
um
the red triangle is also at two three
the circles are at five one and two
three
one two three okay where's the
triangle two three
yeah
okay move up two okay
nope
the original white was at three one
three one mm-hmm
okay where are you now three one
go over one to the left
I can't I'm at three one
okay
we got it
all right I got an abort a white abort
button
and we're gonna have to not do
[Music]
we're gonna do row and column please for
me if
I like it and I need it
all right we'll go over it
oh I gotta go
well we're not gonna win this one
anyways it's good it's like one minute
away
you have time
to say
no no dinner
we're going to the dining table
oh what do you have impossible burgers
uh like lettuce tomato and mustard and
ketchup
foreign
oh I'm going to Davis tomorrow bruh
all right love you too bye
can I get a more try
um
oh
cool bro
pretty cool bro
amen
[Music]